this is my fell training dot TV super
training gym Z strongest gym in the West
we've got some guys doing a dynamic
effort squat session here on a Saturday
at the super training gym in Sacramento
and got David Baathist using the safety
squat bar it looks like he's doing a
little bit more of the repetition effort
method so he's had a little bit more
reps and so many other guys here is mr.
robot pants warming up doing some raw
stuff
Ryan Cove as I pointed out in many
videos before Ryan always does an
excellent job with his form keeping the
knees way out
Brian Spencer has a little bit different
squatting style he likes cold narrow or
narrower and he likes kind of uses quads
mob you'd still see he's still doing a
good job sitting back he's still doing a
good job open up those hips Spencer also
trains raw a little bit more than some
of the rest of us so I think that has
something to do with that piece
developed a lot of strength raw so he
kind of knows where he needs to stand
when he puts his gear on he's just more
comfortable in those positions same
positions that he's in when it's raw
basically there he is handling some
heavy as always guys got a lot of
raw strength there about four plates on
there kind of hard to tell from this
video but definitely at least has to be
on three plates and some chains on there
and here's mr. robot pants going with
those ridiculous orange shorts not sure
what's going on with those safety squat
bar is gonna pitch you forward gonna
work the mid upper back a little bit
more than a regular barbell however what
we're trying but were figuring out here
at super training and that I didn't
really realize before is that you can
squat a little bit more actually safety
squat bar I think or very close to the
same amount kind of some misconceptions
out there about the safety squat bar
people just think it's automatically
harder it does place a senator gravity
in a different spot but
for me I can handle more weight with it
because you don't see the dysfunction
that happens with a normal barbell with
the safety squat bar if you have
shoulder problems which almost everybody
does shoulder mobility issue of any kind
or you know you have trouble carrying
the bar low or trouble carrying the bar
in the right spot the most optimal spot
for your body type which is you know
again there'd be a lot a lot of people
so all those things factor into
squatting the swatting a straight bar
and they manifest into some ugliness
when you go through a full range of
motion squaw you don't see that with the
safety squat bar because you can stay in
a rigid upright position the whole time
although the bar is shoving you forward
slightly
you can also fight against that by
pushing those handles up or by just
keeping the hips underneath the barbell
the weight robots doing there but again
with the straight bar that's almost
harder so I think a lot of the
misconceptions have come people talking
about they're geared squat you know in a
meet and comparing that to what they do
off a box in a pair of briefs you know
if I was to do that let's just say let's
just say I do 800 pounds the safety
squat bar don't even know if I've ever
done that before I know I've done at
least eight plates or so somewhere in
there but I really don't know but let's
say you do it I could do 800 pounds with
the safety strap off a box but you know
I'm squatting near 1,100 pounds of meats
and so I think that's the misconception
people are kind of trying to equate it
to like some sort of geared lift in a
meat which is way way different because
you're putting on more here in the meat
and latching yourself down with the
velcro straps and everything else and
taking more advantage of your gear than
they think so in the in the box squat
box squat is supposed to be harder than
a regular squat for one so that's gonna
you know keep the numbers down just a
little bit but if I was to do a regular
straight bar squat the weights would be
very similar or they'd be slightly lower
straight bar as opposed to the safety
squat bar so those of you who using a
safety squat bar as an indicator for
your other lifts that's that's okay to
do we just need to know you know where
it lies in comparison to your other
lifts you know is it uh you know eighty
percent of your best you know enemy or
you try to need it you need to kind of
figure out how to equate it to something
and then also if you do increase if you
do get better at the safety squat bar
are you noticing an increase on the
platform because ultimately that's all
that matters is your deadlift getting
better is your squat getting better if
they're not then you may need to look
into some of the other things you're
doing your training program but as well
you may need to ditch something like the
safety squat bar may be for you you need
to use the regular bar more maybe you
need to squat on to a lower box or maybe
you need to use cambered bar and be a
little different for each person there's
some more good squatting by Spence there
but you can see how he's kind of
shifting forward out of his knees very
common problem to have especially in
your handle is kind of heavy weight and
in your raw and not really much to draw
off of when you're all robots forms
looking pretty good especially squishing
down into that foam there that big blue
foam pad that makes the lift a little
bit harder in some ways just doing a
good job of keeping himself tight there
I think Spence his feet are ducked out
too much I'd like to see him try to get
him a little straighter but I know he
said that's sad has felt funky to him
but you're losing a lot of losing some
hip hip torque right there you just
losing some power through the hips when
your toes are pointed out that far
especially with that close of a stance
there's absolutely no reason really to
have your your feet pointed out really
at all with that closer stance II almost
have a straight forward positioning of
the feet or just you know shoot them out
ten degrees or so
Spence getting in some good reps here
as he's been doing a lot lately at the
both the squat and the deadlift banging
him out getting those huge quads summers
coming up
don't forget super training gym has
three outdoor tanning in the summer and
that is it from super training dollars